Dear students, regarding the topic of love and
family, I would like to remain anonymous.
Currently, I have a boyfriend. He is
a very kind, loving,
caring, and supportive person
in my spiritual practice. However,
recently, many things have happened that have caused a rift,
but we have decided to stay
together. We told each other that if
things improve, we will
continue the relationship, otherwise, we will end it.
During that time, I met and
befriended someone else in the club.
After that, we developed feelings
for each other.
He brought up the topic of a
serious relationship, and I said that if
we love each other, we will both practice together, pointing out each
other's mistakes so that we can both
correct them. Isn't that appealing?
[Applause]
Appealing to both of us correcting ourselves. It
really confused me. One part of me wants to
end the relationship to start a new one, but the other
part doesn't want to. I'm
very afraid that I might hurt
both of them and suffer
negative consequences myself.  Teacher, I
don't know what seeds I've sown. This is
n't the first time I've been in
this situation.
Every time we look at each other, the guy
looks at the girl, not knowing who's in
this group. This is a
very good question, isn't it?
We understand
each other. Be wary here. Any guy
who says, 'Let's stop for a
while,' remember, there's a lesson to be learned.
If we stop for a while, the girls will have a
chance to fly away. (
Teacher continues reading) And this isn't the
first time I've been in
this situation. Every time it happens, I'm very distressed
and tormented because I'm afraid of sowing bad seeds that
hurt others and myself. And right
now, I feel very insecure. If I
enter a new relationship, because I
often pay attention to
small details, maybe people think that's
normal, but I get annoyed by
those things. Please teach me
what I should do. I
respectfully thank you, teacher. This is a very good question, and I
will answer from the last point onwards so that
we can understand the feelings of
those who...  Paying attention to every little detail is
very
painful, and if you love many people, it's even more painful because
you have to balance the attention of
one person with another. Meanwhile,
we have a choice: either marry this person
or that person. So when
we leave the first person,
we start loving the second, and
we start paying
attention because we've already given up on the first person. We
have a chance to go
back, so we let go. This isn't as good as him, this isn't as good as that
guy, this isn't as good as
that guy. Time is
n't for loving anymore, but for balancing: not as good, not as good, not as good, not as good,
2,
3, 4, not as good, 4, not as good, n, not as good, o,
not as good. How can there be love
anymore? I don't love HC anymore because we're
always comparing, paying attention, and comparing. What's left of
love? It's
very damaging to
us
because we'll regret it for the rest of our lives when we marry someone. If only I had known back then,
I would have married that other guy. He
only cared about one thing for me his whole life: food.  That's all you know,
right, ladies? All your life, there's only
one dish left: knowing this,
a dish of endless regret,
and how will family life turn out?
I'll tell you, back then you
said that because of him, not because of me. I
married that other guy and I'm 10 times happier
[with music].
Knowing this is better. That way of talking...
sometimes you've heard it from your parents somewhere in the family, or from your
teacher, your friends, your
neighbors, you've heard many stories about knowing this.
But in this world, knowing this is one thing, not knowing is another. Knowing this is something you don't know. And if you don't know,
then you do it, so why
say it again?
And here, we have to
understand this: women are very blind when
in love because they mistakenly believe that at
first, if he doesn't care about you,
how can he love you? That's not true. When you're in love, you'll climb mountains, cross
rivers, and go over passes. Oh my god, when you're in
love, that's how it is. If he wants to
possess you, that's how it is. I'm saying, "
This boyfriend is very caring and loving."
She was so caring and attentive.
So why now is
she leaving me alone like this? Why is she giving
me this time,
this time, without anyone to take anything? I've been sitting here
since morning, sitting
alone, for how many days now?
Why doesn't she ask, bring
me a cake to eat, bring
me anything to eat? Isn't that right? Well, I'm just
stating my opinion, so I'm saying
this person is very caring, attentive, and
loving, but there's a little warning: let's
temporarily separate to think things over. Thinking
things over... well, a woman has to get old, a woman has to get old. People say a woman's life is only happy for a few days in love. The suffering lasts a lifetime. If you love, you get to love the man's fake heart,
but live with the
man's true heart. Nothing can bring
you happiness with a man's
true heart. I'm not saying everything, okay? [
Laughs]
[Applause]
But this is what the elders said, every elder
said that when you're in love, the man is
better.  So back then I thought Mr. The was the best man, that's why
I married him. If I had known he was like this,
I wouldn't have married him. When in love, people have to
show their good qualities, even if they're
not perfect, they still show their good qualities. At home, it's
always calling this girl or that guy, "Honey, honey,"
right? At home, they have the habit of using "
you" and "me," but when it comes to love,
it's "Oh my god, you!" "Do you love me?" "I
love you, honey." Right? Right? So after marriage, you don't see any brotherly or sisterly affection anymore. It's all "you" and "me." So here, let me analyze this person's post. Actually, if someone truly loves you,
cares for you, and looks after you, even if there are cracks in the relationship, they ca
n't just act this way or
that way. They have to mend it, right? At most, they'll say, "
We just don't understand each other yet, let's
think about it." But honestly, whether it's a
man or a woman, they only wait a few days.
It's
very frustrating because I've been through love
before. For example, when I was angry with my
uncle, I said...  If we don't see each other, it's only for
one, two, or three days at
most; it
never lasts long.
Here, I'm telling you girls that when you get
married, your husband spoils you
absolutely, absolutely,
not just in love. It's
better than
love. I'm telling you girls, when I
'm sick, the water for washing my face is always
by my
bedside, the toothbrush is brought to my
bedside, from the time we were dating until we got married, it's never been anything
different. I've said that I have a
very pampered family life. My
husband might not eat, but he'll
feed me everything. At lunchtime, I don't have to think
about eating. After getting married and having children, I live in
Cam Pha, and I walk
home until morning. I don't have to wait until the next morning to take a bus. I have a
very pampered family life. If we're talking about care, it's absolutely, not necessarily
rich. It's just that his way of speaking is
n't very gentle, but the
care is
absolutely, absolutely, not relatively, absolutely.
If, after working
far from home, she could go to the
market, cook, clean, and do
laundry without lifting a
finger, it would still be the
same
until the day she decided to leave her family to
become a nun. She remained in that state, but
because she had attained enlightenment, that's why she left.
So, if someone loves
you, they'll be very impatient, my dears. They
can't bear it, right? They'll be
very impatient, they can't stand it, no matter how wrong it is, no matter how angry you are,
they can't bear it.
You see? So here,
I'm just talking about one case of yours.
Sometimes when we're angry with each other, we
want some time to think things
over, but there's a limit.
They won't accept it.
Because they love you, they'll take the blame, and you'll
both move on. But if you let it go on for so
long that they fall in love with someone
else, then it proves that the other person
doesn't love you. In
the beginning, when you're in love, you don't care about anyone
else, you don't take care of them.  It
's hard to win someone's love if you don't care and nurture them. Would you really
slap them once and then
kick them the next day and still love them? Who could possibly love someone like that? So, if you
love someone, you have to say
nice things, be kind, and take care of them in the best way possible,
right? Don't be fooled by that.
Remember, every guy who falls in love is like that. At
first, they want to win over the girl, so they'll give everything,
right? Nice words, kind actions, gestures, money, they'll take care of everything. But you have to love them for a while to know, especially during arguments, right? Of course, you have to love
the good and the beautiful things. If you're too
demanding, they'll leave. So, you
have to make them remember and
love you. Okay? So, according to
you, if this person is kind, loving, and
caring, then
let time see who's the boss.
Right now, we still have two
people pursuing us, so I'll
tell the guy
in the club that I'm in a
relationship.  The
old saying goes, "So today we've all heard it?"
[Applause] "Ah,
so now we're in the selection
phase. If we weren't in the
selection phase, of course
we men would be like that.
We women are just in
the stage of getting to know each other,
so we can accept that
one person gets to know a few people, we get to
know a few people, and when
we fall in love, then we'll
think about it, right girls? Love is a
right, it's a
race. Whoever is better gets to the finish line, right?
And when we're in love, let's
say, 'I'm telling you the truth, I love you now,'
but you have to strive for it, because
if I find someone better than
you, I'll leave you. Of course, I
have that right. Oh, girls, we
have that right, who's going to be stuck marrying someone from a
wealthy family, right? Do you all
agree? Do
you girls agree? Love is
a process of selection, so loving
many
people isn't bad. People do love, but they haven't
found the right person yet."  If it's a good match, people
have to go find it. Love is about getting to know and
choosing, remember, the most important thing in love is finding,
then becoming friends, and during that process of finding, you
start to understand each other, right? Getting to know each other,
understanding each other, and if it's not a good match, you have to
let go and find someone else. That's
not called being unfaithful. Once you're married, you're
not allowed to get to know someone anymore; you have to improve.
Even during the getting-to-know-each-other process, you
still improve, but sometimes you can't
improve, so you have to let go. Who forces you to
settle for someone who isn't good? We have to have that understanding so we don't judge others wrongly. We don't judge our loved ones based on their qualities. We should be open-minded from the start, remembering that we're getting to
know each other, so you can get to know
other people, but not go beyond the limits.
You can get to
know someone, but you have to
respect each other. Therefore, we have to
improve ourselves. Sometimes we
don't understand this issue; we just
think that if someone likes us, they love us, and we
don't need to change ourselves anymore during the
process.  Loving someone means choosing
between two people. If you see that they
dislike something and like something else, you
have to change yourself to suit
both sides. That way, we'll
move towards a beautiful and happy love, right?
We already consider them
our lover, so they love us, and
we don't need to change
ourselves anymore. How can we force them to love us?
Before, they saw us as good and
loved us. Now, they understand
our flaws and will
no longer love us because of those flaws. As
I explained in the previous question, we love each other's character,
our morals, our virtues. It's a matter of fact, not something insignificant.
We love the things we love, the
morals that are expressed. For example, if a
guy comes to my house and sits with his legs crossed, resting his feet on the
table, would you still
love him? No, you can't love him like that, can you? A
guy comes to my house, sits on a chair, puts his
feet on the table, and rests his thighs on the chair.
Would you still love him?
Character is expressed through actions and...  I ca
n't love that situation, I can't
love that personality. Therefore, in the
process of being in love, we have to
look at each other and change
ourselves to suit what's good,
not to suit each other. Both of us
have to change to suit what's
good, then the love will be strong. So
here, she said that he's caring and
attentive, and I haven't said whether the guy K is good
or not, but that's my opinion. She's
not impatient.
No, if he's impatient, then the love doesn't seem to be that strong. And
down here, it happened with a guy
in the club. I'm not generalizing, I'm
not generalizing about all the guys
in the club. But
anyway, people are aware of their mistakes and point them out to
each other, meaning they're aiming for something
without fault, meaning they have a goal
to reach, not clinging to
something unchanging. People in real
life are inherently unchanging;
my nature is just like that.  That's right, isn't it?
If we don't know about Buddhism, then
men might just... I think, "If I can
love, I love; if I can't stay, I
leave, right?" But if you, my
friend Lam, study Buddhism, you
don't have that kind of thinking.
You'll have the thought that if something is
n't good, we'll
fix it. If I were to give you advice from the bottom of my
heart, you should marry someone who
understands karma and has a purpose in life, which is to improve themselves. Marrying such a
person
will lead to a
better life. But if we only love for
their care and attention without a
clear purpose, that will lead to something
bad, because no
one can care for only one side forever. That's
just the tea before the
conversation, just gestures and actions to
get a lover. That doesn't
reflect a person's true nature.
This guy, he's just started flirting; all
his actions haven't shown his true nature yet.
That's just a trap to catch the fruit, a
snare to catch the prey. Right?
Right?  We have to acknowledge it.
But if we keep falling into that trap,
we're doomed. So it has to be
the essence within our way of thinking,
our lifestyle, our philosophy of life: wanting things to get better,
fixing things for the better, discarding what's bad, learning
what's good, and studying good
morals. We want a
life of standards, love,
loyalty, and change—that's good. So
if I were to advise you, I'd
recommend this guy, this new guy
[laughter],
because he has a clear philosophy of life, a
clear direction in life, always changing and moving.
So, when there are
economic problems in your life, for example,
a family with moral values
will think of it as karma. They won't
blame this person or that person,
and they'll start to fix the karma. Right? It's
much better. So that's my advice,
but it also depends on your
choice, because you asked why.  It's always
like that.
Because you don't understand this issue, it
means that others always come to
you showing interest. That's a trap, a
snare. Everyone seems interested,
but after a while, they don't get along and
break up. That's an inevitable rule
because when you're alive, you see the
true nature of things. You haven't seen compatibility yet, but this
isn't anything special. It's just that
you haven't recognized the truth, so
you feel that way. Now that you
know the truth, this isn't
your karma; it's an inevitable consequence for all
sentient beings.
When you don't love each other anymore, you say, "Let's
just part ways for a while. If you
don't get along, then come
back, then don't come back." And the
other person will leave because it's just a
trap, not genuine affection,
so they'll leave. So, have you
understood this today? Just put yourself in
that position, understand it, recognize it,
and feel normal.
Life is beautiful like that.  So, I
really want you girls to fall in love with guys who are virtuous, kind-hearted, and
eager to learn about karma.
When they have karma and make
mistakes, they will turn back
more, feel
more remorse and regret, and change their behavior more than
those who are not virtuous and not enlightened about
karma. Girls, please try your best!
[Applause]
B
[Music]